(KITCHENWARE CLATTERING)
Morning. Dad. I made you some
of your favorite banana-nut muffins.
Oh. yeah? Trying to get un-grounded
before Robocop comes out on Friday?
Did I mention I made
them all by myself?
Mmm. Not bad. What
recipe did you use?
My recipe? I can't tell
you that. It's a secret.
Oh. well. let me see if I can guess some
of the ingredients that you put in here.
Is that a hint of
cinnamon that I'm tasting?
Oh. yeah. just a
little hint. Mmm-hmm.
And I'm detecting
just a touch of cilantro
and thyme. Am I right?
Whoa. Dad. you're really sharp.
Yeah. I am.
Gus. you wanna
come out of the pantry?
(SIGHING) Shawn. what have
I told you 1.000 times before?
(SIGHS) Don't hide
Gus in the pantry?
No. "A lie always
leads to more lies."
Instead of lying to me
about baking these yourself
and then lying to me about your
secret ingredients that you put in.
you should've just said that
Gus baked these muffins.
and I might've let
you off the hook.
Who said Gus made
them? Go to your room.
I don't know where
that is. Shawn.
Who's Shawn?
Public parking. huh?
Well. nice to know that my
first visit to Santa Barbara
isn't a good enough reason for you to pop
for a couple of extra bucks for the valet.
The restaurant doesn't have
valet parking. Uncle Burton.
Am I gonna need tokens
to use the bathroom?
It's been well reviewed.
It got four spoons.
Crack spoons
from the sound of it.
Gus! Wait up!
Shawn?
Finally.
You know. I went to
two comic book stores
and three women's volleyball
games looking for you.
Luckily. your phone has GPS.
You tracked me? Yes. I did.
With a little help from my friends
at your wireless service provider.
By the way. they might be calling.
They think you're a fugitive from justice.
Run with it.
Who is this. Burton?
Shawn Spencer.
He knows who you are. He
knows what you do. Don't speak.
We're going to dinner.
You're not invited.
Let's roll. Uncle Burton.
Uh. Jules just called. We
got a case. We should go.
You know. Shawn. maybe you
should handle this one yourself.
There's a first
time for everything.
First time for... What
are you talking about?
Sorry. Shawn. I can't make it.
Oh. for crying out loud. Burton.
the cops are handing you a case.
You gotta take it. You're the
only psychic detective they've got.
That's very funny. Don't speak.
Just one minute. Yeah.
I know what you're thinking. Of course
you do. You're a psychic detective.
A few months ago. I was on
the phone with my great-aunt.
who's hard of hearing and
pretty much out of it in general.
I told her I was working part-time
at a psychic detective agency.
She must have misunderstood. because now
everybody on my mom's side of the family
thinks that I'm a
psychic detective
and that you're... No. Gay?
German? No.
Invisible? My assistant. Shawn.
Wow. Gus. this is... Wow.
I know. It's a mess.
Why don't you just tell them it
was a simple misunderstanding?
It's too late.
I can't come clean now
without everyone thinking that
I lied to them in the first place.
Plus. Uncle Burton has had it out for
me ever since I started going by "Gus."
even though I'm named after him.
If he figures out that I'm not psychic.
he's gonna make it his mission to
destroy me in front of everybody.
All right. say no more. You're
not getting destroyed by that man.
UNCLE BURTON: I'm
getting hungry over here.
Don't worry. I have a plan.
You do?
Uncle Burton! Mmm?
How would you like to come with
us and watch your nephew in action?
Tag along with you guys on
a real detective case? Yeah.
Hey. maybe this won't be the most
boring vacation in the world after all.
(ALL LAUGHING)
Maybe.
I can't wait to watch you
work your psychic magic.
I know. you know That
I'm not telling the truth
I know. you know They
just don't have any proof
Embrace the deception
Learn how to bend
Your worst inhibitions tend
to psych you out in the end
(CAMERA CLICKING)
So. how you feeling.
buddy? A little nervous?
Little something
happening in the belly?
Maybe you should do some
of your Lamaze breathing.
No. You know why. Shawn?
Because your little plan to
embarrass me isn't gonna work.
As soon as the cops see
Uncle Burton hanging around.
they're gonna
kick him right out.
Nice try. Shawny boy!
Hey. guys.
Ah. Buzz.
You know. I'm not sure they're gonna
want you having any guests in here.
I mean. since it's a
crime scene and all.
No. it's not. It's not?
No. There's no crime
scene tape at the door.
the forensic guys are not
collecting any evidence.
and it seems as though you
guys don't suspect foul play.
So I've got as much
right to be here as you do.
And don't give me any of
that fancy police talk. please.
I've seen enough Hill Street
Blues to know what's what.
I gotta go. Mmm.
Hey. thanks for coming so quick.
Who's this? This is my
Uncle Burton from New Jersey.
Shawn invited him.
Very nice to meet
you. Uncle Burton?
His mother named him after
me. It's not a very common name.
but some of us
still use it proudly.
Jules. what's the
skinny? What do you got?
Vince Wagner. longtime restaurant
critic at the Santa Barbara Mirror.
dies suddenly after eating
his wife's chicken soup.
All signs point
to natural causes.
but the wife's acting
a little suspicious.
I want to make sure
I didn't miss anything.
so I'd like for you to
get a reading on her.
Then that's what we will do.
She's in the den.
Finally. A chance to see
Gus's psychic powers at work.
Shawn. can I speak
to you for a second?
What is the problem here?
Stop playing. Shawn. You
know I can't do this. Yes. you can.
No. I can't. You make some
observations. you form a conclusion
and you reveal it to everybody in
a ridiculous and or roundabout way.
What are you talking
about? I'll show you.
What?
Uh-huh. Whoa.
Oh!
Raw chicken next to
vegetables. charred pots.
a refrigerator full of
takeout containers.
What does that tell
you about the wife?
I don't know. She sucks at
cooking. Oh. you're on fire.
What? Uncle Burton.
come quick! It's happening!
Shawn. stop this. Stop playing.
Put your hand to your head.
It really helps sell the
thing. I'm not doing it. Shawn.
This better be worth
skipping dinner for.
He's a psychic wildebeest.
(STAMMERING)
I'm seeing something.
I'm sensing something.
(PROMPTING)
I'm tasting something.
Ugh.
It tastes bad.
She's a bad cook!
MRS. WAGNER: Huh! You
sound just like my husband.
Mrs. Wagner? Oh.
please. excuse my partner.
His psychic visions are
often terribly impolite.
No need to apologize. I
really am a terrible cook.
I'm very sorry for your loss.
I'm sensing that you're at peace
with your husband's passing.
Well. not exactly at peace. But it
wasn't easy being married to a food critic.
He rated everything I did.
Surely he couldn't
have rated everything.
(CHUCKLES)
I never broke two stars.
Well. that's awfully harsh.
So why did you keep
on cooking for him?
Health reasons. He had gotten a
worrisome checkup from his doctor recently.
He ate out everyday for his job and
always brought the leftovers home.
So I started making him healthy.
home-cooked meals just once a week.
That's what dinner was tonight.
Thank you for your
time. Mrs. Wagner.
You have our condolences.
(SIGHS) She didn't kill him.
If she wanted him dead. she wouldn't
have cooked him healthy meals once a week.
Great. Let's just tell the police
and get Uncle Burton out of here
before they ask
us anything else.
GUS: Uncle Burton?
All right. check it out.
I went to Candy Emporium.
This time for research.
There are over 100 flavors
of lollipop on the market.
not one of which turns your
tongue black. Can you believe that?
What are you talking about?
Right before we left. I caught a
quick glimpse of the critic's mouth.
His tongue was coated black.
Now what else could possibly
cause something like that?
Bismuth subsalicylate.
That dude that used to
play for the Mavericks?
No. Shawn.
It's the active ingredient in
those pink stomach medications.
He must've had some. Look. let's
talk about this later. My uncle is...
Gus. What?
The critic was murdered.
I thought you said
the wife didn't kill him.
She didn't.
He was complaining of an
upset stomach before dinner.
He asked for chicken soup. That's
the ultimate "I'm feeling sick" meal.
Except. of course. for a tub of bacon
grease and hot dog water. But usually...
Shawn. this place is a sty. Maybe you
ought to tidy up once in a while. huh?
Or did you forget that
you're the assistant?
You are absolutely right. sir.
The person who's not the psychic detective
should be in charge of all the cleaning.
It just makes sense.
Meanwhile. Gus here has new psychic
knowledge about yesterday's case.
Yeah? No. I don't. Shawn.
I mean. I shouldn't spend so much
time working when I've got family in town.
Oh. don't be ridiculous. Burton.
You think Diagnosis Murder ever
let family get in the way of his work?
Another excellent point. I bet
Diagnosis Murder never did that.
Go ahead. Gus. Call upon the spirits.
Ask them what happened to the dead critic.
Fine.
(SNIFFING)
(CROONING) Oh. spirits.
Always willing to
lend a helping hand.
This psychic stuff can
get a little wimpy. huh?
At least he's not doing
it in a tutu and Capezios.
I ask you to help me solve
the murder of Vince Wagner.
Show me what transpired.
I'm seeing something.
I'm seeing... I'm seeing...
I don't know what I'm seeing.
Wait. wait. It's
coming clearer now.
Somebody put something
in his food at a restaurant.
And that is what made him sick.
Sick to the point
of having a seizure.
No. no. no. No?
That's what killed...
That's what killed his nose.
What?
That's what killed him.
Ooh! Gus. you are so
amazing with that stuff.
(CHUCKLING) If it wasn't
for his psychic talents.
I'd have to get some lame job at a
pharmaceutical company or something.
That happens to be a very
exciting industry. Shawn.
Now. let's go and tell the police our
new revelation. Uncle Burton. wait here.
No way. If I wanted to
sit alone in a dirty room.
I'd have stayed at
home with my wife.
(CHUCKLES) I'm
going with you guys.
Killed his nose? You didn't...
What's wrong with you? How do you
kill a nose? You said like this. Shawn.
Shawn. that visitor's badge is
not gonna hold him up for long.
I can't be psychic
in front of the cops.
Don't worry. I have a plan.
I'm gonna go in Vick's office.
You wait here. For what?
My signal. The stuff you were
doing in the office? Genius. all of it.
But I wanted you
to say "poison." Gus.
Poison. Get it right this time.
This time? Shawn.
what are you about to...
There's no time to explain.
Ham pencils!
Sheila E. tomato bark.
Velvety shark toast. Shark toast!
Is there something wrong
with you. Mr. Spencer?
You picked today to
ask him that question?
Dude. Lassy. what
happened to your arm?
I don't want to talk about it.
Yeah. He won't tell us. either.
And what were you saying when you
came in? I couldn't understand any of it.
Oh. Jules. it's this case. These
visions I'm having. they're so intense.
I can't even describe them. Every time I
open my mouth. the wrong fishes come out.
You mean words?
Isn't that what I said?
Oh. no. If only there was someone
here that could translate. You know?
Someone who's known me so
long they understand everything I say.
Someone just slightly
less handsome than I am.
Gus!
Perfect. This is perfect.
Gus! Gus. get in here!
GUS: What?
Oh! Mambo beef puddles!
Swirly. whirly jungle pants!
(PANTING) Quick. translate
that in normal words for us.
Man. they made me fill this thing
out for six pages of paperwork
and didn't even put my picture
on it. Sorry. who are you?
No one ask anymore
questions. No one.
Concentrate. Gus. Tell
us what all this means.
Swirly. whirly jungle pants.
It means the critic ate
something he wasn't supposed to.
Two bones and a skull.
Two bones and a skull. Poison!
Yes. The critic was poisoned.
Man. this is better
than Ghost Whisperer.
Guys. we checked the
wife's soup. It's clean.
And wait. I am now supposed
to believe that Guster here...
Carnival stunt
muffin. Huh? What?
It wasn't the wife.
The critic was
poisoned at a restaurant.
Now that makes sense. Wagner was
pretty harsh on his own wife's cooking.
He was probably even harder
on the restaurants he reviewed.
He could've easily been poisoned
by a chef who got a bad review.
Mmm-hmm.
You think so? ALL: Yes!
Okay.
Call the lab. I want a tox
report on my desk ASAP.
You're actually
listening to this?
Well. we've gotten information
in stranger ways before.
It never hurts to check it out.
Burton. that was fantastic.
How do you do that stuff?
He can't talk right
now. Uncle Burton.
Psychic episodes like that
leave him very. very parched.
You see... No. no. no. no.
no. Let me get you some water.
Down those stairs.
around the corner.
Thank you.
What do we do now? We're
gonna figure out what that critic ate.
If he was poisoned by a chef. it had
to have been something he consumed
in the 24 hours
leading up to his death.
How do we do that?
Well. Wagner's wife said he
brought all of his leftovers home. right?
The refrigerator was packed
with takeout containers.
The one on top was probably the most recent.
and the restaurant it came from was...
The curvy A. The Curvy A?
That doesn't sound like a
place that serves food. Shawn.
It's not the name. It's the
symbol on top of the box.
Come on. man. You eat out all the time.
What place has a big. swoopy. curving A?
I don't know. What
does it look like?
(SIGHS)
Antonio's.
Sweet.
Why did you write on my hand?
Why would I write on my own
hand? This thing is totally permanent.
What? Shawn!
Let's make this quick before
Uncle Burton starts thinking
we're sticking
him with the check.
Fire up the entrees for the
eight-top. COOK: You got it. boss.
Mario. where are
my starters? Hurry up.
MARIO: Almost ready.
Hey. Chef Antonio.
We'd like to ask you
a couple of questions.
Sorry. guys. No customers
allowed in the kitchen. Area fresca.
No. we're not customers. We're
from the Health Department.
Here for a surprise inspection.
Again?
We just had the surprise
inspection a few days ago.
Why. is there a problem? Yes.
You weren't surprised enough.
Let's make this quick.
Walls and the floor are
clean. Drainage is clear.
Hand-washing station is stocked
with soap and clean towels.
Dry-food storage over there.
Walk-in freezer over here.
Looks good.
Aren't you supposed to
check the temperature?
Of course. Gus. go ahead.
check the temperature.
Me? Why do I have to do it?
Dude. I'm wearing short sleeves.
Okay.
So. did you hear what happened
to the food critic down at the Mirror?
That's some nasty business. huh?
Sure. I heard about
Wagner. I don't say I'm sad.
Ten years I've been
working in this town.
That man never gave
my food a good review.
Sounds like you're
not very fond of the guy.
Vince Wagner made my life
miserable with his asinine reviews.
Honestly. I am glad
that that bastard is dead.
Chef Antonio?
You're under arrest for the
murder of Vince Wagner. Take him.
Murder? Is this a joke. huh? Who
put you up to this? Get your hands off...
Jules. what's going on here?
Tox screen came back positive.
Apparently. Wagner ate a poisonous
mushroom called the death cap.
What are you saying?
There were death caps in the mushroom risotto
Wagner ate here the day before he died.
We found the
leftovers in his fridge.
Looks like you were
right. Shawn. Or Gus.
Or whoever.
What a relief. We caught
the guy. we solved the case
and best of all. I don't
have to be psychic anymore.
(LAUGHING)
Uh-oh.
What?
We got the wrong guy.
Man.
Guys. it's not that complicated.
Whenever a critic eats at his restaurant.
Antonio prepares the meal himself.
Not this time. The mushrooms in the
takeout container were cut into cubes.
Antonio cuts his
mushrooms into strips.
Lassy. I have a really
strong vibe he didn't do this.
Look. we know
Antonio hated Wagner.
Wagner died from
eating his risotto.
We have the risotto. We even have
Wagner's notes proving he ate the risotto.
It's a slam dunk.
(SIGHS)
That's Wagner's notebook. It
says the risotto was cold. So?
So.
Whoa! The sandpaper
was the banana patch!
I think he means
the risotto was cold.
Thank you. Gus. You're welcome.
Why would food be served cold
at a five-star restaurant unless...
Unless the poisoned food
was cooked somewhere else.
(EXCLAIMING) You know
what I think? Case is closed.
(SIGHS)
Hey. guys. I wanna thank you
for an incredible day. Burton.
You're a regular Rockford Files.
(LAUGHING)
Did my uncle just thank
me for an incredible day?
More important question.
How much TV does he watch?
I'm serious. Shawn. My cousin took
him to the Super Bowl on a helicopter.
and he never even
thanked him for that.
I'm serious. too.
He's like this crazy
tank-shaped encyclopedia
of detective shows.
I bet he even saw Manimal.
You're right. About Manimal?
Shawn. we have to solve this
case before he leaves. Why?
Because. I think I finally figured
out how to get back on his good side.
I've been seeking Uncle
Burton's approval all my life.
He's mean to everybody. But ever since
he started tagging along on this case.
he's been kind of nice
to me. You know why?
You don't have the braids
anymore. He likes detective shows.
If I can solve this
case before he leaves.
he may finally get over
the whole Gus-Burton thing.
But I'm gonna need your help. All
right. fine. Mr. Psychic Detective.
Tell me. since Antonio clearly
didn't kill the critic. who did?
I don't know.
Maybe we should find out
if anyone else hated him.
See who else may
have had a motive.
Shh! What?
You're gonna start a crime-fighting
revolution with talk like that.
Shawn. you say stuff
like that all the time.
Phil Pritikin.
Mr. Editor-in-Chief.
Shawn Spencer. Longtime
reader. first-time caller.
What's going on with
the Sunday spread?
Layout's waiting for your
approval on the mockup.
Mockup. Funny word.
Like I was saying...
Where's Salazar's
alderman story?
She's typing it up. Do you
want copy to read it first?
No. just send it straight
here. Anything else?
You know. Phil. now that you
mention it. I would very much like to...
Does he work here?
I don't believe so. sir.
Son. I'm a busy man. If you don't
work for me. I don't have the time.
I just have a question
about Vince Wagner.
Cooper. these
guys got questions.
Ooh! I also have an
idea for a crossover strip
where Dilbert finally
meets Marmaduke.
Did you guys need something?
Hi. I'm Burton
Guster with the SBPD.
We're investigating the
murder of Vince Wagner.
I'm Cooper. I was
Mr. Wagner's assistant.
Great. Maybe you
can help us out.
Do you know of anyone who may
have had a grudge against your boss?
Are you serious?
We call them the
Angry Chef Letters.
Every chef who
ever got a bad review
would write a nasty letter
to Mr. Wagner about it.
So you're saying
this is all hate mail?
I don't know if I'd
call it all hate mail.
It ranges from mild dislike
mail to extreme abhorrence mail.
How about "I wish
you were dead" mail?
Oh. we have those.
too. Back here.
Any one of these chefs could've
cooked the poisoned risotto
and snuck it into
Antonio's restaurant.
You're right.
We should talk to all these chefs
before they open for business.
Call the restaurants and
make a reservation. For Justice.
Is justice the time or the
number of people in our party?
Just call them. And make it
for three. Uncle Burton's coming.
All right.
So what did you
think of Vince Wagner?
Looky here.
He was a jackass.
You know what he called
my award-winning jambalaya?
"Jamba-lousy."
Now tell me this ain't the best damn
jambalaya you never had in your life.
Do you know what he wrote in his
review of my famous miso yellowtail roll?
Mmm. "Miso disappointed."
(LAUGHING)
Don't laugh. It's not funny.
No. it's not.
Put it this way. He once referred to my
white chocolate tiramisu as "ass cake."
Oh! Now that just seems mean.
I didn't kill him. I was
here that night. cooking.
Had a bunch of big groups.
Never even left the kitchen.
Mmm-hmm. Mmm. Yeah.
I was either in the kitchen or
out here talking to customers.
I own this place. I have
to watch over everything.
Every bowl. every noodle.
every chopstick. every fish...
I didn't kill him. I definitely
thought about it a couple times.
I never figured out why
that guy was so angry.
He ate out at fancy
restaurants all the time for free.
and. still. all he
did was complain.
Ask her a few more questions.
Maybe she'll give us some cookies.
I'm confused. Why are you here?
Wagner never even reviewed my restaurant.
Oh. make it right. There it is.
That was. without question. the
tastiest dead end we've ever gone down.
Well. at least it wasn't a
complete waste of our time.
It seems to me like any of these chefs
were way too busy to murder the critic.
Matlock never ate this good. I'm going
back to the car and unbutton my pants.
(CHUCKLING)
You know. I've been thinking
about what that dessert chef said.
Wagner got to eat out at fancy restaurants
every day on the newspaper's dime.
If I was him. I'd be happy.
I mean. who wouldn't
want to have that job?
That's a good point.
That's a really good point.
Gus. I think you're right.
We were wrong about the chefs.
Maybe this wasn't about revenge at all.
Maybe this was about somebody
wanting the restaurant critic's job.
Someone who works at
the newspaper. Exactly.
We need to get down
there and talk to the editor.
Wait. wait. Shawn. he's
not going to talk to us.
He doesn't talk to anybody
who doesn't work for him.
Oh. I don't think
that'll be a problem.
Okay. I think I have
something here.
You. sir. are left-handed.
You have a new baby at home.
You just covered a story
somewhere in the Midwest.
And you. You just really.
really need to pee. Just go.
All right. you convinced me. Congratulations.
you're our new astrological forecaster.
Now get out of here. You've got a job
to do. You've got a deadline to meet.
Hey. dude. Did you
read my horoscopes?
Yes. They're terrible.
Horoscopes are
supposed to be vague
so that people can interpret
them to mean whatever they want.
Yours are all way too specific.
I wrote them with
specific people in mind.
"Aries. Calcium is especially
important to you right now.
"Mr. Salt-and-Pepper
Hair with a maroon car.
"There may also be a
promotion in your future.
"Try walking backwards
through doorways for good luck."
Carlton. are you
expecting a promotion?
No. Come on. O'Hara. Don't be so
naive. It's a horoscope. It's nonsense.
KAREN: Detective
Lassiter. may I have a word?
Of course.
Let's see. What's mine?
"Libra. Your one true love will be wearing
sneakers and an Apple Jacks T-shirt."
That's kind of a weird detail.
Phil. heya.
Wondering if I could ask you a couple of
questions about this restaurant critic job.
Great. You too? Sorry?
Everybody from the
ombudsman to the delivery boy
wants to be the
new restaurant critic.
I know it's the cushiest
gig in all of journalism.
but I hired you to write horoscopes.
and that's what I expect you to do.
Whoa. Phil. I think you're
getting the wrong idea.
I just could sense that
you're totally swamped.
Figured I'd come on in. offer
up my soothsayer services...
Sayer services?
Sooth services. Sooth services
to help you pick the
best candidate for the job.
I guess you are pretty sharp. Applications
are over there. Keep it quiet. though.
Every single person
who works here
is playing some sort of angle
to get the restaurant critic job.
Sir? Meeting in five. You know.
these Cheetos are so crispy yet airy.
and its subtle flavor is such a wonderful
contrast to its eye-catching color.
I get it.
Every day with the Cheetos.
Shawn. there is 100
applications in here.
That's 100 suspects. My
uncle's flight leaves today.
We don't have time to talk to a
hundred people. Shawn. We don't need to.
We just need to
talk to the one guy
that can link one of those
people to the murder weapon.
And who's that?
(SITAR PLAYING)
Mmm. Mmm. Delicious.
Are you sure about this guy?
He's the only mushroom
farmer in the tri-county area.
If anyone can help us. he can.
Mr. Mooney. thanks again for
taking the time to speak with us.
(EXHALING)
So. how many...
How many types of
mushrooms do you grow here?
Well. a couple of hundred.
depending on the season.
Does that include a
mushroom called the death cap?
Death cap? Heck. no. man.
Those things are poisonous.
Besides. they only
grow in the wild.
Well. let's say we were looking
for the death cap around here.
Where would we find it?
Well. I know a few places
in the hills. Why do you ask?
Why do you ask why do I ask?
(LAUGHING)
Why do you ask why
do I ask why do you ask?
Why do you ask why do I
ask why do you ask... Shawn.
I'm just curious.
Yeah. well. a guy came in here a couple of
weeks ago. and he had the exact same question.
Do you remember
this person's name?
Can't say that I do. But I remember
exactly what he looked like.
Can you give us a description?
Yeah. okay. The guy was
about nine feet tall. right?
He had sunshine coming out of his mouth.
and he had a hippopotamus for a hand.
I don't think I have
any more questions.
Yup. That'll do it.
Okay. Uncle Burton. Just let me
know when you're all packed up
and I'll pick you up and take
you to the airport. All right.
We spent two hours riding
up to that mushroom farm.
and we're right back
to where we started.
Oh.
Don't be such a gloomy you.
Gus. Look at the bright side.
Now we know the killer is a he.
And that he has a hippopotamus
for a hand. That helps us out a lot.
Whoa! Dad. What
are you doing here?
"Sagittarius.
"Please return the BB gun you confiscated
from your son in the second grade.
"P.S. You are a crankypants."
That's an amazing coincidence.
Didn't you confiscate a BB gun
from me in the second grade?
All right. look. Shawn.
Here's your stuff.
Next time you want something
from me. be an adult and ask for it.
Passing yourself off as a
psychic. that's bad enough.
But horoscopes? Shawn... Shawn!
What if some idiot out there reads
this crap and decides to take it seriously?
Dad. it clearly states that
"Astrological forecasts are for
entertainment purposes only."
Besides. I only took
the job for a case.
We're investigating the
restaurant critic murder.
The cops already have a suspect.
but we're pretty sure that
Chef Antonio was framed.
Oh. then I assume you know all
about the veggie burger incident. then.
(SCOFFING)
Of course we know about
the veggie burger incident. Dad.
We're professional
detectives. Gus?
Googling it.
Sean. you know. maybe instead of wasting your
time writing this garbage for the newspaper
you might try reading
it once in a while.
A couple of months ago. vegetarian
customers at Antonio's restaurant
started complaining about how
bland the vegetarian burgers were.
Now. in my personal opinion. if
you eat a burger without beef in it...
BOTH: You've lost the
right to complain about flavor.
I've heard that speech before. Just call
someone a hippie and get to the point.
The point is. Antonio decided
to make the burgers tastier
by adding beef
broth to the recipe.
Oh. great. All the complaints
stopped. Until some crazy vegan lady...
By the name of Dwyer?
Found out about it
and started organizing boycotts
against Antonio's restaurant.
They've been feuding ever since.
This guy secretly fed beef to vegetarians?
Why are we trying to get him out of jail?
Because he didn't kill the critic.
Take a look at this article. Shawn.
She advocates any action to
put Chef Antonio out of business
for the veggie burger incident.
She calls herself
the Vegan Vigilante.
(SCOFFS) How
very villainous of her.
You think she could've framed
Antonio for Wagner's death or what?
Only one way to find out. Do you
know where this Dwyer lady might be?
Sure. I saw her at the drive
through a couple of days ago.
Well. that's very helpful. Dad. What
makes you think she'll be there today?
(CROWD CHANTING IN
UNISON) Meat is murder!
Stop eating your
fellow creatures!
All animals have
got the right to live!
Meat is murder! I hate
it when my dad's right.
Stop eating your fellow creatures!
All animals have got the right to live!
Yo! Vegan Vigilante lady.
How long you been out here?
Three days.
We heard that you had a grudge with Chef
Antonio. Were you near his restaurant recently?
Yeah. I lead a protest outside
of his place on Tuesday night.
(CROWD CONTINUES
CHANTING) Tuesday night?
Excuse us.
That was the same night
the critic was poisoned.
Dude. I think we just
found our killer. Nice.
Detective Lassiter. SBPD.
Who's in charge of this freak fest?
Guys! We got your message.
Will you please tell us what
this has to do with the case?
Nice shirt.
Thanks.
Did you buy that
today. by any chance?
(CHUCKLING) This old rag?
No. I've had this thing
for just about forever.
Remember when I sent off those
cereal box tops to get this thing?
You didn't do that. Sure. I did.
No. you didn't. It was the same year
you got your first Cabbage Patch...
Shh! I remember.
Why do you ask.
Jules? No reason.
All right. this whack job is in violation
of at least six different municipal codes
and she smells like curly fries. I
say we cut her loose. take her down.
Where's the restaurant manager?
He's probably inside
managing the restaurant.
Copy that.
Wait for it. Wait for it.
Is there a problem?
No. No. I'm just making
sure I'm not being followed.
A good cop. always
aware of his surroundings.
(CROWD CHANTING)
(CRASHING)
I had better go help him.
Uncle Burton.
Burton. I got here
as soon as I could.
Who are all these
strange people?
It's all a part of
our investigation.
We had to come check out a lead.
Thanks for meeting me down here.
Oh. no problem.
That ride in the cab gave me
a chance to fill out this postcard
letting everybody in the family
know about our psychic detective.
(LAUGHING)
Well. I hope you saved
some room on there.
'cause I just solved the case.
Yeah?
A few months ago. Chef Antonio put beef broth
in his veggie burgers at his restaurant.
infuriating vegetarians
all over Santa Barbara.
That woman tried to put the chef
out of business. but it didn't work.
So instead. she poisoned the
critic and framed chef Antonio for it.
What are you talking about? I never
poisoned anybody. You guys are nuts.
Hey. watch the way you talk to my nephew.
'cause he can see right into your soul.
You were there on
the night it happened.
And I'm sure that seeing the chef
behind bars must make you pretty happy.
Well. of course it makes me happy. He didn't
have respect for the rights of animals.
Meat is murder.
But murder is also
murder. Miss Dwyer!
We'll be right there. Guys. there's
been a development in your case.
Someone died from eating death caps
that were discarded downtown yesterday.
Yesterday? Yesterday?
Dude. it couldn't be her. She's
been chained to a pole for three days.
Plus. we're nowhere near
downtown. She still could've done it.
She could've easily
have slipped out of here
and done it when
no one was around.
Actually. she couldn't have.
We have a rough description of the
suspect who threw the mushrooms away.
It was a six-foot-tall man.
Psychic. Bogus.
Our second victim
was a homeless man.
Ate a bag of death caps he saw
being tossed in a dumpster yesterday.
then went to the health clinic today
after complaining of abdominal pains.
He died a few hours ago.
What else do we know about
the person who discarded them?
Not much. The victim died before he was
able to give us an accurate description.
And Chef Antonio was in custody.
so it looks like he's innocent.
Not if he had an accomplice.
Now that we've got the chef. his partner's
out there trying to dispose of evidence.
Let's go down to lock
up and talk to that chef.
Thanks.
See you later.
Where was the dumpster located?
At the corner of
Laguna and Vista.
Shawn. we were
on the right track.
Laguna and Vista is across
the street from the newspaper.
Whoever threw out those
mushrooms works at the paper.
We have to go back over there.
Uncle Burton's flight
leaves in an hour.
I don't care. Do you know
what's at stake here. Shawn?
My entire future with my family.
Yeah. That. two unsolved murders.
and an innocent man who's still in jail.
But your family. too.
Dude. we still have
no idea who the killer is.
And it's gonna take longer
than an hour to figure that out.
(KNOCK ON GLASS)
Fine. Let's go to
the stupid airport.
Listen. Burton. maybe you're not
all to blame for fouling up this case.
I mean. I can't help but think that
you'd do better at this detective business
if you didn't have Shawn
weighing you down.
I mean. I don't see what
he's bringing to the operation.
You're psychic. he's not.
What do you need him around for?
You know. Gus.
your uncle has a point.
What I'm trying to say is. it was Murder.
She Wrote. not Murder. They Wrote.
That's true.
Oh. this is great. I left some
of my clothes at the hotel.
Maybe if somebody hadn't
rushed me down to the burger stand.
I wouldn't have forgotten to
pack my new yellow hippo shirt.
You mean your hip shirts?
No. I mean my hippo shirt. I bought a
couple of them down on State Street.
You know. normally. I
don't go for modern fashion.
but these hippo shirts. they
make my arms look so huge.
They've got a nice little hippo
logo right on the sleeve. See?
Nice.
He had sunshine coming out of his
mouth. He had a hippopotamus for a hand.
Gus. I just figured it out.
Who had the best access to the
person picking the next restaurant critic?
Think about it.
Uncle Burton. you might
be a little late for your flight.
So I'm proud to announce that
our new restaurant critic will be
my hard-working assistant. Nick!
(EXCLAIMING)
(APPLAUDING)
Thank you so much.
sir. I'm so surprised.
I honestly didn't expect
to get to this job at all.
That's not exactly true. is it?
Whoa. Gus.
Don't worry. I got it.
GUS: You knew that Phil
Pritikin would give you this job.
That's why you
murdered Vince Wagner.
But Gus. we... I said I got it.
Hang on. Hang on. You're
saying he's the killer?
Yes. And I'm going to tell you
exactly how he did it. In just a second.
You never told me how he did it.
Why do you think I'm trying to
stop you? What are we gonna do?
My uncle thinks I'm the psychic.
the newspaper thinks you're a psychic.
and the cops think I'm
just translating your visions.
Give me a second
to think. Hurry up.
Okay. I have a plan. Blurt out
something nonsensical. Do it now.
Keylaces! Shoeboards!
Pineapples!
Oh. no. The visions have become
too complex for one person to decipher.
Gus. might I offer my help?
Yes. Shawn. you may.
Magic head.
Two heads working
together as one.
(EXCLAIMING) You! You wanted the
most coveted job the paper had to offer.
and you were in the good graces of
the one guy that could give it to you.
But there was a problem.
Now. what was that problem?
The problem was. Wagner was never
going to retire. So what did you do?
You hatched a plan to
force Wagner off the job.
The first thing you needed was a fall guy.
Unfortunately. Lee Majors wasn't available.
(WHISPERING)
Apparently. he was
available. He lives here in town.
But he was a little
out of your price range.
So you flipped through
Wagner's hate mail.
and you discovered that Chef
Antonio was the perfect candidate.
(EXCLAIMING)
You knew Antonio's signature
dish was his wild mushroom risotto.
So what did you do?
(EXCLAIMING) You tracked
down some death cap mushrooms.
and baked them into a risotto
that resembled Antonio's.
But you made two mistakes.
First. you sliced your mushrooms
into cubes instead of strips.
And second.
Wagner noticed that
his risotto was cold.
Why would risotto be served
cold in a five-star restaurant?
Because! Antonio didn't
cook it. You snuck it in.
We just had the surprise
inspection a few days ago.
A simple call to the county will confirm
that there were no real health inspectors
at Antonio's
restaurant that night.
You posed as one. and that
gave you the cover you needed
to switch out the risotto
with your poisoned batch.
(SCREAMING) Stop!
Wagner died. Antonio was arrested. and
no one suspected you were the real killer.
This is preposterous.
You can't just walk in here
and accuse someone
of being a murderer.
Well. actually. we can.
Damn right. we can.
The guy you went to about the mushrooms
remembers exactly what you look like.
After you tone down the
drug-induced exaggerations. Yeah.
Tall guy! Orange cheese
powder around the mouth.
and a hippo logo on his sleeve.
Al Mooney is insane. Nobody
will believe what he says.
Hang on a minute. I don't believe
anyone said the witness's name.
You're under arrest.
Cuff him. guys.
Busted.
Hands behind your back. please.
I wanna talk to a lawyer.
Yeah. sure. come on. Let's go.
Looks like you're finally able to
communicate your visions again.
It feels good to be back. Jules.
As a matter of fact. I'm
having another vision right now.
You and me celebrating
over dinner. drinks.
Hmm. Sounds like
you're still a little off.
Whoo!
Another case solved. Yeah.
Now let's just get
you to the airport.
For what? My flight
left five minutes ago.
Uh-oh. Are you mad?
No.
Why would I be mad
at you. Gus? Huh?
Guys. there's been a bank robbery
downtown. Chief Vick's asking for you.
Bank robbery? Man. that sounds exciting.
You guys don't mind if I tag along. do you?
BOTH: Well... Well. of
course not. Wait for me.
Don't worry. I have a plan.
Gus. take it easy.
And Shawn. don't forget to
vacuum the office every night.
I'm all over it. Uncle Burton.
As a matter of fact. you might just want to
check out this little ditty before you go.
What's that?
Well. Gus. I learned from your uncle
that I need to be a better assistant.
So I've taken the liberty to draw
up a new employment contract
that spells out the duties of the
psychic detective's non-psychic associate.
Assistant.
Things like cleaning. emptying
the trash. doing the dishes. and...
Thank you. Shawn.
I'll sign it later.
No. sign it now before
he changes his mind.
Yeah. Gus. Before
I change my mind.
I'm not signing that.
Shawn. And why the hell not?
'Cause.
Look. Uncle Burton.
I gotta tell you something and I
know you're gonna be disappointed.
I know. I know. You're confused.
Because I'm here. you don't know
whether to sign it "Burton" or "Gus."
Let me tell you something. Your
psychic abilities help solve crimes.
It makes the world a better place. Thanks
to you. the Burton legacy will live on.
So sign that thing
any way you want to.
You got my blessing.
Is that what you
were gonna tell me?
Pretty much. Yeah.
Okay. Take it easy. fellas.
We'll see ya.
Well. there you have it. You
can sign it any way you want.
I'm not signing that. Shawn.
Dude. you can sign
anything you want.
He said.
You could sign it Don Cheadle.
GUS: I'm not signing it!
SHAWN: Debrick Shaw
Stillington? Delmar Lindo?
In between the lines
there's a lot of obscurity
I'm not inclined to
resign to maturity
If it's all right then
you're all wrong
But why bounce around
to the same damn song?
You'd rather run
when you can't crawl
I know. you know That
I'm not telling the truth
I know. you know They
just don't have any proof
Embrace the deception
Learn how to bend
Your worst inhibitions tend
to psych you out in the end
I know. you know